Macomb County has made a lot of news lately. A northern suburb of Detroit, the county is largely ‘blue collar’ and its economy is heavily dependent upon the auto industry. Last week Macomb County voted decisively for Donald Trump. It was the first time in almost thirty years that a Republican presidential candidate has carried Macomb. Many pundits have pointed to this shift as representative of a greater movement among America’s white working class. For the next couple of weeks, I’ll be posting stories from Macomb County. I didn’t ask anyone who they voted for. Very few of the stories even touch on politics. And while the series cannot presume to be representative of an entire region, hopefully it will introduce you to a few of the people who live there.
One thing that makes me most proud of Humans of New York is the warmth of the comment section. There are exceptions of course, but generally the responses to each story are thoughtful and encouraging. I joke that Humans of New York is followed by the nicest 25 million people on the Internet. Often the comment section will takes on a life and a narrative of it’s own. During my visit to Santiago, I received an email from a woman named Victoria 
Today marks a major milestone in the history of geriatric canine literature! The Susie’s Senior Dogs book was released today. After months of breathless anticipation, scholars and critics agree: ‘Susie’s Senior Dogs has set a new high-water mark among books that have nice pictures and sweet stories about old dogs who find new homes.’ The author, coincidentally, is my wife. She worked so hard to make this book perfect and it came out wonderfully. The book will warm the heart of every dog lover. Moby, Simon, and I are very proud of her. And Erin is using every penny that she makes to pay for the medical bills of old foster dogs
“A few months ago, my friend drowned in a swimming pool while I was with him. We were just hanging out. I was cooking for us. Then I stepped away to take a phone call, and when I came back, he was face down at the bottom of the pool. I was only gone for a few minutes. I don’t even know what happened. He never told me that he couldn’t swim. I tried CPR and he was still alive when the ambulance came. I prayed so hard. I called everyone I knew and asked them to pray. I called prayer lines. Everyone prayed for him at church. I was hoping that everything would be OK and that this could just be part of my testimony. I was hoping I could say: ‘I dedicated my life to God, and here’s what happened.’ But my friend passed away. He’d actually been dead the entire time I was praying. And it’s been so confusing for me. Because right before this happened, I’d been feeling so close to God. I was volunteering at church. I was going to midweek services. I was reading books. I was giving more of my money. I was partying less. I was trying to stay positive, and be mindful, and use less bad words. And I felt so close to God. I’d have conversations with him while standing on the subway platform. But it’s been hard lately. It’s hard to read my Bible verses. I’m scared to ask for anything. I say ‘thank you’ when I wake up every morning, but anything beyond that is very difficult.”
“A few years ago I had to have open-heart surgery.  When I got the news from my cardiologist, I went into full panic mode.  Suddenly there was nothing going on in the world except for my fear.  I thought that I was going to fall apart in front of my kids.  I ended up walking to the bookstore alone.  I was looking for anything that might help calm me down.  And I ended up grabbing The Power of Now.  It’s not an easy thing to describe in words, but that book taught me how to stay in the moment.  It taught me to step back and observe my thoughts, to label them as ‘thoughts,’ and to create a gap between myself and the ‘voice in my head.’  Once I realized that I am separate from my thoughts, it took away their power.  This photo was taken an hour before the surgery.  I’m with my grandson.  And there isn’t a fear in my mind.  I’m locked in that moment with him.”
“After twenty years of marriage, I caught my husband cheating and had to leave him. But honestly, I wish I’d gotten my divorce much sooner. For so long I’d been denying my right to be an individual. The family had become so much more important than my dreams. I had small joys back then: getting a brand new car, having our 20th anniversary, when my son got into college. But now the intensity is so much greater. I’m doing all the things I love to do. I studied nutrition and got a job at the hospital. I buy whatever I want. I watch cartoons. I never miss a Shrek movie. I go to the orchestra at least once a month. And right now I’m coming back from a class on finance. I’m going to invest in the stock market and get a house by the beach.” 
“All the bosses care about is getting the job done. So if you have a good work ethic, the work falls on you more. The bosses know that it’s easier to push a good worker than it is to get a bad worker to do their job. It’s the path of least resistance. Especially when the boss happens to be friends with the bad workers. It used to really bother me. I couldn’t stand the injustice of it. But I’ve had to learn to let it go. I was bringing the stress home with me. I’d get mad at little things and slam drawers. I was even having rage dreams. I abhor violence, but I was having dreams where the boss would criticize my work and my hands would go around his neck. So I had to learn to let it go. I used to really care about the job. But I’ve had to just start viewing it as a paycheck.”
“All the workers on my oil platform were laid off five months ago. I didn’t save the money when I had it. Now it’s been six months since I last worked. I even had to ask my mother-in-law for money last Saturday so I could buy milk for the kids. I have to do something. Maybe I can drive a taxi or something. If I don’t get a job soon, I think the family will break apart. My wife is always asking me what I’m going to do. It’s like she doesn’t even understand what’s happening in the economy right now. Even my four-year-old son feels that something is wrong. He’s started to ask me when I’m going back to work. I lie to him. I tell him I’m on medical leave. I don’t want him to feel this stress too.” 
“Being a grandfather is quite different. It’s much looser than being a parent. I don’t have to always worry about providing patterns of behavior. I just get to give her little kisses. I was allowed to borrow her this morning so we are walking through the park. It’s our personal pastime. She likes to look at the dogs and birds. Today we saw some blackbirds which was quite exciting.” 
“Both my parents were Italian immigrants. We grew up in the Marlboro projects. My dad was a butcher. He was very ‘old country.’ I don’t think he once told me that he was proud of me. But it didn’t bother me. He taught me that you have to earn every single thing you get in life. On my twenty-fifth birthday, my Dad ran into one of my coworkers. I’d just been promoted to deputy foreman. They told him how great of a job I was doing. My dad came home, grabbed me by the neck, pulled me toward him, and kissed me on the forehead. There were tears in his eyes. He told me how proud he was of me. And that meant more to me than anything I’d done until then. It’ll probably be another twenty-five years before I hear it again.”
“Both of us are widowers. We met last year at a dance for seniors. He treats me so much better than my husband ever did. My husband treated me like a stray dog. He used to beat me. He’d get angry, and yell, and break things. He’d always say that I’d never meet someone else. But this man is different. He always tells me that he loves me. He always wants to be with me. He makes me feel like a princess.”
“Don’t get me wrong. I want everyone to get along. And I don’t want to sound racist. But they’re coming into our country. If you ask me, that makes them racist. There’s something going on with the Muslims. There’s something going on there. There’s a lot we don’t know about. They have a game plan. They want all the businesses. They want control. They want my grandchildren to work for them. I’m hoping he can do something about it. We need somebody to say no.”
“Drug dealing was delicious. I had a pistol, I had girls, I had funk. Everyone saw me as important. I helped defend the favela and maintain the rules. You couldn’t rape, you couldn’t kill, you couldn’t hit a woman without permission. Everyone knew the rules and nobody could break them. Or else you might get erased and fed to the crocodiles. I don’t have a heart. I’m cold blooded. My adrenaline goes up
“Even if we have equal rank, a man always tries to take charge of the situation.”
“Ever since the twins were born, I’ve had a new urgency in terms of my art. I want to figure this all out so the girls can have a nice house and a nice childhood. Right now I make animations for commercials, but maybe one day I can sell a show idea. Or make a book. Before the twins were born, I used to wait around for inspiration. But I don’t have that luxury anymore. So I try to sit down and draw something every single day. I’ve learned that inspiration is kind of baloney, anyway. Ideas will come along if you do the work. This is a story idea that I’m working on. It’s kind of corny, but I want to make a book where my girls are the heroes. I call it ‘The Hoods’ because they love to wear matching sweatshirts. Here they are stuck between a rock and a hard place.”
“For Heloisa, every elderly person feels like a grandparent. And she loves her grandparents. So I asked her if she wanted to have her sixth birthday party at a home for the elderly. She loved the idea. So I contacted a local home and planned everything with the coordinator. We sent invitations to the family members of all the residents. I’m a photographer, so I went a few days early and took nice portraits of all the residents. On the day of the party, I printed out the photographs and brought them as gifts for their family members. We did games and activities. There was so much joy. Everyone had such big smiles. The residents were crying. Their families were crying. I was crying. I think Heloisa will remember the experience forever. Afterward, her school friends came home with us and we had an old-fashioned pajama party.” 
“For the last eight years I’ve been the head of communications for the UN Refugee Agency. My job is to make people care about the sixty million displaced people in the world. I wish I could tell every single one of their stories. Because if people knew their stories, I don’t think there would be so many walls. And there wouldn’t be so many people drowning in the seas. But I don’t think I anticipated how difficult it would be to make people care. It’s not that people are selfish. I just think that people have a hard time caring when they feel insecure. When the world is unstable, people feel vulnerable. And vulnerable people focus on protecting what they have. They focus on their own families. They focus on their own communities. It can be very hard to welcome strangers when you’re made to feel threatened. Even if those strangers are more vulnerable than you.” —————————- This is my friend Melissa Fleming, who I think is one of the most important people in the world, and who was so instrumental in helping organize the HONY refugee series. Tomorrow at 7pm we will be in conversation at the Union Square Barnes and Noble, to celebrate the launch of her new book: A Hope More Powerful Than The Sea, which tells the powerful story of a young woman who survived a shipwreck while fleeing the war in Syria. If you can’t make the signing, you can get the book here: http://amzn.to/2kb9Ga8
“God doesn’t answer my prayers like he once did. But he still talks to me. He talks to me through my mind and through my own mouth. He’s upset with me because he wanted me to wave at someone on the street and I didn’t. So he took away my money and told me to leave my jobs. My family put me in the hospital and they said I was bipolar. But I’m not mentally ill. I take the medicine because it’s part of the deal for me having my own apartment, but I’m not mentally ill. When I’ve paid my debt, God is going to transform my voice. He’s going to make me a great singer. One night I had a dream that I was singing and something golden fell from the sky. And I caught it so everyone gathered around me. I hope you pray about me and then you’ll see the truth. Pray to God and ask him: ‘Is this man honest, or is he mentally ill?’”
“He didn’t begin speaking until the age of seven. He used to hide everywhere. I’d scream for him but he wouldn’t respond to anything. Once when he was three years old, one of his uncles came into the house wearing a baseball cap to the side. He started screaming and I couldn’t calm him. I couldn’t even get him to look me in the eye. But eventually I tried pulling the cap to the front, and he fell completely silent. I brought him back to his room to calm down. And when i walked in a few minutes later, he had built an amazing castle out of playing cards.” 
“He fell in love with me because I used to have a huge ass.”
“He fell in love with me the first day he met me. He kept calling me princess. He said we were meant to be together because our feet were the same size. Look how embarrassed he’s getting!”
“He gets emotional when he drinks. He starts crying every time an animal dies on the nature shows.”“I can’t help it. I’m a Pisces.”
“He had a heart attack two years ago. He knows he shouldn’t be drinking. He knows he should be eating better. He has a new granddaughter that he wants to see grow up. But every time I catch him eating something bad, and I try to yell at him, he gets so playful and tender. He calls me his ‘beautiful brunette,’ and he tells me that I’m the love of his life. He says that he’s searching for a giant smile that’s hidden inside me. And it pisses me off because it’s patronizing. And I try so hard to be mad at him. But in the end I always crack, and I end up laughing.” 
“He proposed to me twenty times over the past forty years, but I kept saying ‘no.’ We were doing just fine without the paper. But our kids are more conservative than us. It was the opposite of normal—we were getting pressured from below. We’re on our honeymoon now.”
“He’s not too romantic but he does close himself in the bedroom while I’m studying for my law exams.”
“I always thought of kids as being simple in a way. I knew that having a child would be challenging, but I underestimated how complicated their emotions can be. I thought I’d have greater influence over my child’s mood. I imagined that I’d be able to make him happy when he’s unhappy. I hoped that I would always have a solution. But you learn quickly that some unhappiness doesn’t have a quick fix. And often it’s just part of who he is. And that can be painful to accept. Sometimes I just have to provide as much guidance as possible, and trust that he’ll find comfort within himself.”
“I always told myself that when I reached a certain point in life, I’d get a dog. I thought maybe when I get my own home. Or when I’m more settled. But that point never seemed to come. So I decided to go ahead and adopt. The majority of the dogs at the pound were pit bulls. I originally wanted a younger dog, but this one had a red card on her cage, which meant that she was going to be euthanized. She was emaciated and had kennel cough. But when I reached out my hand, she licked it. I named her ‘Adidas’ because I wanted a running partner. But that dream ended pretty early. All she wants to do is hug and kiss and lay on you. She doesn’t care who you are. If she senses that you’re the least bit receptive to her, she’s coming right toward you. Just a few minutes ago she jumped into somebody’s wheelchair. It’s made me more of a people person. I’m always having to explain to people why she’s trying to kiss them.”
“I broke up with my girlfriend this morning. We’d been together for three years. But I’m Catholic, and she doesn’t know if she believes in God or not. I wanted to propose to her one day. I think she’d be a great mom and a great wife. But I feel like this might be something we can’t overcome. I want to get married in a Catholic church. I want to raise my children to be Catholic. It’s important to me and it’s something that we’d have to deal with eventually. So I didn’t think it would be a good idea to keep putting it off. But it really hurts to lose her. Both of us were bawling our eyes out. She was such a big part of my life. Every time something good happens, she is the first person I want to tell. And I do respect that she refuses to believe in something just because I do. But I don’t know what to do. I’m hoping God will give me an answer.”
“I call them clobber verses. There are six of them. They’re the verses that get used to hammer gay people. The funny thing is that I never felt pressured by God himself. Only his followers. But I desperately wanted God to change me. I didn’t want to be part of a group with so much shame attached to it. So I started praying in my twenties for God to make me straight. If I could have taken a pill, I would have. I joined the ministry. I got married. I told my wife that I’d had experiences with men, but I convinced both of us that I could choose to be different. I wanted to be normal. I wanted kids. I thought it was just a matter of commitment. I even tried to take reparative therapy classes—just to show her I was serious. They tried to teach me that homosexuality wasn’t real. They said that I’d just had an overbearing mother. But I couldn’t change. I kept slipping up. I couldn’t give my wife what she needed. My marriage ended. I had tried so hard but nothing worked. I got so angry with God for not keeping up his end of the bargain. But after some time, I finally realized why he wouldn’t change me. He never felt like he needed to.”
“I came out at the age of twenty. I was trying to understand myself. It was a discovery time. I was thin and flexible. I loved to dance. I started performing in a trans show at a gay club. I wore high heels and sang Janet Jackson songs. It was wonderful. I did my own choreography. My friend Carlos designed my costumes. Carlos didn’t charge me money. He wanted me to be a success. We weren’t lovers or anything. He was more like an older brother. He was huge, and coarse, and a little bit of a bully. One night I was waiting backstage and Carlos came running into the green room. He told me that there was a fire and we needed to leave. He had been standing by the exit when the fire broke out, but he still came back to get me. We ran down a dark hallway to the emergency exit. The hallway was filled with smoke and there was a crowd of people pressed against the door. They couldn’t get it open. It was chained from the outside. Carlos lifted me up on top of the crowd, and people began passing me forward. It was completely dark. I held Carlos’s hand for as long as possible. Someone broke a window and I got pulled into the street. I was completely naked because so many people had been grabbing my clothes. When I finally turned around, I saw the whole club engulfed in flames. Over twenty people died that night. Carlos was one of them.” 
“I can do all the same things as my wife except for the milk part. And I try to make up for that by reading a lot of stories and showing her my vinyl collection.” 
“I can get a bit insecure about my health condition. In the beginning I was worried that I wouldn’t be able to give her everything she needs. Because I can’t lift her. I can’t run after her. It takes me longer to do things, so I thought she might get frustrated with me. But none of those worries came true. She’s perfectly fine with our reality. She’s very patient. When we get out of the car, she knows that the wheelchair goes first, then Daddy, then Mommy, then Olga. She’s very happy sitting on my lap. And she loves to lie in bed with us. She even tries to help me. In the house I don’t use my wheelchair because I can walk while holding onto my husband’s shoulders. Olga saw us doing this recently, and she came up behind me and tried to help by pushing my legs.” 
“I come from Ghana. I’m always smiling. People ask me: ‘Isaac, why are you always smiling?’ I tell them: ‘What else can I do?’ I am so blessed to be in this country. I work in customer service at the CVS on 57th Street and I love it. CVS is the best place that I love so much. I help people with their needs and it makes me so happy. I help them with their coupons. I help them with their medication. People bring me their challenges and I solve their problems. You can say that I am their champion. I am not a citizen. But when I help people with their problems, that makes me part of the community. So I do feel like an American.”
“I covered a lot of Trump rallies as a journalist. I didn’t feel any hatred. People were more curious than anything. I was never assaulted. I felt like most people were just supporting him because he wasn’t part of the establishment. Or because they were tired of politics. But it was confusing. Because even though I didn’t feel like they hated me, these people were supporting someone who said I should be banned from the country. Even the father of one of my best friends supports Trump. This man had me over to his house. I went to Thanksgiving with him. My friend asked him: ‘Dad, how can you support that man? Our friend Zahra is a Muslim.’ He told her: ‘Don’t worry. He won’t do everything that he says.’ Today has been difficult. These last few weeks, it was mostly speculation. There was suspicion that most Americans supported him but I could hope that it was wrong. But now that hope is gone. And I have to feel differently. I have to feel like maybe most Americans don’t want me here. And I feel like no matter how hard I try, I’ll never be part of the community. And even if they’re friendly to me, or if they invite me to Thanksgiving, deep down they believe that America is a country that belongs to white people.”
“I didn’t enjoy life very much because I was always sacrificing for the future. My whole life was about studying and working. I worked so many jobs. I went to college. I got my MBA. I didn’t travel very much. I didn’t get married. I didn’t have kids. All I wanted to do was feel secure. But I’ve had bad health problems my entire life. So I haven’t been able to save. And two weeks ago I lost my job. The job market is brutal when you’re my age. People don’t think you can learn new things. I can’t even get work as a clerk because they think I’m overqualified. I have no money now. I can barely afford food and transportation. I’ve spent my whole life sacrificing—just to one day feel secure. But it seems like it was all for nothing. And I have no idea what to do.” 
“I didn’t find out that I liked teaching until I was 45 years old. I was working as a graphic designer, and I volunteered to teach a group of kids from a poor region. It was part of a special program aimed at teenagers who’d dropped out of school. At first I was scared. Many of them had behavior problems. Some of them were addicted to drugs. One of them even brought a knife to class. But I discovered that I could really connect with them. Sometimes I could even reach kids that refused to talk to psychologists. I learned that I could transform someone’s life just by listening. The program only lasted six months, but it gave me such sense of satisfaction. I’ve been training for the last two years to become a real teacher. My test results just arrived and I got assigned to the school I wanted. I’m going to teach Portuguese to elementary school students.”
“I didn’t realize it was possible to be so proud of someone for rolling over.”
“I didn’t want to be a mother. I was eighteen. We weren’t in love. I had goals I wanted to accomplish. So I made the hardest decision of my life. It’s not legal here. So I researched it on the Internet. I did it myself. In my room. If things had gone wrong, I could have died. Seeing it come out of me was the worst moment of my life. And I couldn’t tell anyone. Not even my parents. So I carried the secret with me. I felt like this thing was always in my chest, but it was stuck there. All day I’d act normal. Then at night I’d go to my room and cry.” 
“I didn’t want to take the pill anymore and I thought I could control things on my own. That was a mistake. I started to cry when I found out I was pregnant. I was terrified by the thought of the baby being 100% dependent on me. What if I wanted to travel? Or go to graduate school? Or just get the fuck away and not talk to anyone? At first I wanted to get an abortion. I even called the hotline but I never went through with it. Now my son is my life. I’ve totally abandoned myself. I broke up with the father after a year. He has a new girlfriend now. He gets to have his life, and see our son whenever he chooses. He gets to go out. He gets to go through an emo phase and decide not to work. It’s unfair. He can play with our son then go back to his life whenever he wants. I get left with the hard part. My life is my son now. And I love him, so that’s a wonderful thing. But it’s a terrible thing too.”
“I do yoga at the senior center. But it’s not advanced enough for me. I can do the cat, the dog, the bridge, the snake… all of it. My class is filled with younger people in their sixties and seventies. They are always complaining: ‘My hip! My diabetes!’ But you’ll never hear a word out of me.” 
“I don’t communicate my feelings. My entire family was like that. We’ve always sort of just swept things under the rug. I think that’s what makes me a good ER nurse. I don’t take things home with me. I can separate myself emotionally and just focus on what needs to be done. But it also makes me pretty bad at relationships. I met Gavin while traveling in Europe last year. We traveled together for two weeks, then he came home and met my family, and then we went to Mexico for a week. After that we talked every day. Gavin was the opposite of me. He was warm and happy and touchy. He’d even tell random strangers that they looked nice. But I pulled back the moment we got too close. Because I don’t like the feeling of being dependent on someone. Gavin was killed in a car crash at the end of January. He was alone in England and I didn’t even find out until days after it happened. I’ve tried to handle it like I always do. I try not to think about it or talk about it. But it’s not working so well this time. I’m taking things more personally at work. If a patient comes in the ER with similar injuries, I always ask myself: ‘What if this was Gavin?’”
“I downsized my life to one large suitcase, and I’ve been traveling non-stop for seven years. Everyone’s happy. My ex-wife got the real estate. And I got my peace.”
“I feel homeless. Like this isn’t the place that I thought it was. I feel like I don’t understand where I am. Where we all are. Last week students started chanting ‘build the wall’ in the lunchroom of a local middle school. Some of the Hispanic children started crying. If you’re the principal
“I felt like sometimes she didn’t want me born. I was like Cinderella—even though I was a dude. She blamed me for everything. Maybe it’s because I was ugly, I guess. Girls were all running from me. My brothers were better looking. When I grew older, it was all about money. Mom and I never discussed anything personal. It seemed like she always wanted something from me. One time I called her crying, because I was trying to quit marijuana, and I felt really depressed. She just told me: ‘You’re wasting all that money on weed. You could be giving it to me instead.” She used to cash my student loan checks. One time she even used my social security number to get a credit card, and I didn’t even know until I got the bill. So I detached myself from her. I stopped answering the phone. Then two years ago she called to tell me she had cancer, and she needed an operation, but I didn’t even answer the phone. I thought she was tricking me again. She left a message, it said: ‘Michael, I’ve been trying to get a hold of you. I love you. And I know you love me.’ And I just ignored it. And she died. And I’m haunted by that. I’ve been trying to write about my life lately, but I can’t get past my mother. I wish I could just start my story with that phone call. With her saying that she loved me. The only other time I ever felt love from her was when I tried crack cocaine. I was a teenager, and I had been using for a couple weeks, and I went in her room to ask for baking soda. She started crying, and she looked scared, and she said: ‘Michael, why do you need baking soda?’ And I felt love at that moment. And it was so strong that I quit doing crack right then. I never used again. I didn’t go to a program or anything. That’s how strong that feeling was.”
“I first ran for Congress in 1999, and I got beat. I just got whooped. I had been in the state legislature for a long time, I was in the minority party, I wasn’t getting a lot done, and I was away from my family and putting a lot of strain on Michelle. Then for me to run and lose that bad, I was thinking maybe this isn’t what I was cut out to do. I was forty years old, and I’d invested a lot of time and effort into something that didn’t seem to be working. But the thing that got me through that moment, and any other time that I’ve felt stuck, is to remind myself that it’s about the work. Because if you’re worrying about yourself—if you’re thinking: ‘Am I succeeding? Am I in the right position? Am I being appreciated?’ – then you’re going to end up feeling frustrated and stuck. But if you can keep it about the work, you’ll always have a path. There’s always something to be done.”
“I first started coming out here when I was thirteen years old. I was the only girl in the beginning. It was intimidating. The guys would try to make me angry. They’d call me ‘dyke.’ They’d roll their skateboards in front of me when I was skating. So I started coming out here every day right after school, when the sun was high, and the place was empty. I got better than a lot of them. I started beating them in elimination games. So they respect me now. A lot of girls used to watch from the edges because they were too intimidated to participate. But now that I’m out here every day, some of them have the courage to try.”
“I fostered thirteen little babies in my life. It’s just a passion I have in my heart. Often they’d just come wrapped in a blanket. I could only foster one at a time because I had five children of my own. But one time a mother dropped three children off on my doorstep. She had just given them chocolate ice cream. I’ll never forget how the ice cream was dripping off their faces. Most of the time I’d only have the children for a few months. And once they were adopted, I’d never contact them again. But I often wonder what happened to them. Maybe we’ll meet again in heaven.”
“I got pregnant when I was twenty-two. It wasn’t planned. The father and I weren’t even in a relationship. But I thought I could handle it on my own. I felt like a modern woman. I was in law school. I wanted to be a diplomat. But oh man, it was hard. I wasn’t emotionally prepared to deal with it. Society doesn’t treat the child of an unwed mother like a blessing. When you’re married and pregnant, people come up and ask all kinds of questions: ‘Is it a boy? Is it a girl? How are you feeling?’ But that doesn’t happen when you’re single. People saw me getting fatter, but everyone avoided the subject. Instead they asked each other: ‘What happened? Do you know anything?’ I felt invisible. I dropped out of law school because I felt so ashamed. Thankfully a few close friends carried me through. My daughter is eighteen now. Everything turned out fine. But I wish I could have enjoyed my pregnancy more.”
“I grew up in Spain right after the civil war. When I was eleven I was sent to a Catholic boarding school. They fed me and sheltered me. But they only taught me religion. They were training me to be a priest. I was taught to fear God. I was taught to fear the outside world. I was taught to fear everything. I left the grounds one day when I was twenty-eight. I went to a barbershop and got my hair cut by a French woman. I had never really spoken to a woman before. She told me I was cute. That same day I bought a newspaper. It was the first time I’d ever bought something with my own money. When I returned to the school, I was changed. I had discovered freedom. I began to realize their lies and so I wasn’t useful to them anymore. A few months later I met a woman in church and fell in love. We got married and had three children. I left all of it behind, except for the fear. Sometimes I still feel very afraid for no reason. That will always be a part of me.” 
“I grew up in a poor neighborhood on the north side of the city. There was a lot of violence. But I didn’t feel the color of my skin very much back then. Even the whites in my neighborhood were poor. We all lived in the same way and everyone seemed equal. My mother always encouraged me to study hard so I could leave the neighborhood. She worked as a maid for a rich family, and she wanted me to live a life like theirs. Eventually I graduated college, got a good job, and moved to a wealthier neighborhood in the south part of the city. I do feel safer— just like I imagined. But I never expected to feel so unwelcome. It can be hard to make friends. I’ve been called names. I’m made to feel the color of my skin more than I ever did growing up.”
“I grew up in a rural area. I came to the city when I was fourteen. I wanted to expand my horizons. All I had was a suitcase and my courage. My parents tried to stop me. My mom found my first bus ticket and ripped it into pieces. But I told her that I wasn’t going to give up, and eventually my father drove me to the station. At first I worked as a maid in people’s houses. One of the people I worked for was the owner of a major newspaper, and his wife helped me go to high school. Then I went to college, where I met this handsome guy beside me. Now I run a small business selling tapioca. I’m even able to help support my parents back home. But I will admit that I’m getting restless again. I think I want to live in another country.” 
“I grew up in a rural town. I was the only girl in the family. Being a girl back then represented a lot of ‘no’s.’ I wanted to study English, the answer was ‘no.’ I wanted to play guitar, the answer was ‘no.’ I wanted to date a boy, the answer was ‘no.’ I felt like there was a barrier separating me from life. The only thing my family wanted for me was to graduate high school, get married, become a teacher, and spend every Sunday with them. So I stayed. And I got pregnant at twenty-five. But my child died during birth. I felt completely drowned. I don’t even remember the passing of time. I lost an entire year of my life. But I eventually reached a moment where I knew that my only chance was to make a major change. And I finally left that town.”
“I grew up in the suburbs. I used to think that I could write a prescription for a poor man: ‘Get a job, save your money, pull yourself up by the bootstraps.’ I don’t believe that anymore. I was ignorant to the experiences of poor people. I’d invite anyone to come and meet the people who live in this neighborhood. Right now we are surrounded by working poor people. These are the people who sell your tools at Sears, and fix your roofs, and take care of your parents, and mow your lawns, and serve your meals. They’re not getting a living wage. There’s no money left to save. There’s nothing left if they get sick. Nothing left if their car breaks down. And God forbid they make a mistake, because there’s nothing left to pay fines or fees. When you’re down here, the system will continue to kick dirt in your face. You can’t pull yourself up when there’s nothing to grab onto. We aren’t paying our brothers and sisters enough to live. We want them to serve us, but we aren’t serving them.”
“I grew up on a farm in the panhandle of Texas. One day I was driving my father’s tractor, feeling sorry for myself, and trying to figure out what I was going to do with my life. I’d flunked out of law school. I couldn’t play football or tennis. The only thing I’d ever been good at was performing. In high school, I’d played the lead role in both the junior and senior plays. So I saved up enough money during the harvest season to buy a little red Yamaha motorcycle. Then I drove to Dallas so I could go into show business! I did some plays in Dallas, then I got a touring role in Fiddler on The Roof, then I rode my motorcycle to Hollywood to be a movie star! I got my first big role two months after I arrived. They paid me $500 a week for six weeks. I thought, “Man! This is Hollywood!’ My character was a cowboy outlaw in a motorcycle gang. He ended up getting killed by a pitchfork while trying to rescue the leader’s girlfriend from a hippie commune. You know how I got the part? I walked into the audition and told them I’d do the whole part cross-eyed. Just like this. You know how hard it is to ride a motorcycle cross-eyed? Almost impossible. But I did it! Unfortunately it ended up being the worst reviewed movie ever made.”
“I grew up, like, savage. My stepfather abused me starting at the age of four. My mother threw me out when I was fourteen. I became addicted to drugs. I fell in love with a drug dealer and we had a daughter. He hit me but I had nowhere else to go. I tried to get away from everything when I turned nineteen. I thought: ‘I’m leaving Puerto Rico and I’m going to change.’ But on the plane to New York, the guy next to me was a heroin user. And he convinced me to try it. And things got worse in New York. It was even harder because I was alone. I ended up in the street. I was jumping from house to house. I was doing what I had to do to survive, you know. The government took my children away. I was lost for so many years but I’m a new person now. I’m sober and I’m working and I’m going to church. But I struggle a lot. I have all these emotions and I don’t know where they come from. It’s like I can’t control them. And when I’m with other people, I feel less. My past always comes back to me. I say to myself: ‘Who do you think you are? You’ve done so many bad things. And you don’t even know how to talk right.’ I can never get away from the things that I’ve done. But Jesus forgives me, you know? He knows that I’m a sinner person and he still loves me. My past does not matter to him. He is changing my thinking. He is helping me start new. Without him, I would have nothing to hang onto.”
“I had to leave Venezuela. I’ve lived there my entire life. My parents are buried there. But five months ago I had to leave. It just got too dangerous. One day I was attacked while walking home from the supermarket, and I woke up on the ground. I’ve had guns pulled on me several times. I just couldn’t do it anymore. I’m trying to start a new life but it’s impossible to find a job. I’ve applied to about sixty shops so far but nobody will give me a chance. They think I’m too old. I tell them to try me for just a few days, but they won’t. I did find one part time job cleaning toilets and picking up trash. These are things I’ve never done in my life. But right now I can’t afford to be picky.”
“I hate being a kid because my video games are too hard.”
“I hated my father for a long time. He was an alcoholic. He was abusive. And he abandoned our family when I was ten years old. My mother had to support seven children on her own. She worked as a housekeeper. My father remarried and became wealthy, but he never gave us a penny. Sometimes we went without food. But we survived. All of my brothers are grown and healthy. My father died recently, and in his final weeks he asked all seven of his sons to come visit him. Only two of us went. The rest were too angry. We mainly just talked about soccer and other small things. He never apologized for what he did. He still wasn’t the kind of person who could put his feelings into the world. But he cried the entire time. I had viewed him as a block of ice for so long. But he seemed human in that moment. He looked so vulnerable lying in his hospital bed. And at that moment I forgave him. Even if he didn’t ask me to.” 
“I have Asperger’s, but I wasn’t diagnosed for a long time. I was a polite child. I found it easy to concentrate at school. I had some problems socializing but that’s pretty normal for children. But my problem is that I’m too transparent. I kept trying to fix people. I could never just stand aside and let things be. I kept telling people what was wrong with their lives. I thought I was helping them. I just wanted everything to be in order. But I accidentally stirred up so much negativity. Now I’m sometimes afraid to talk to people. I don’t want to cause any problems. There’s no danger in what I just said
“I just think that people are looking to blame someone else for their problems. They’re worried about the wrong stuff. They’re too fixated on what other people are getting. I wasn’t able to go to college. My mom raised five kids on her own. I’ve had to work since I was sixteen. So I haven’t gotten to do all the things I wanted to do. But I’ve never complained. I’ve never been ‘too good’ for a job. I worked at Burger King. I worked at Walmart. Now I work at Chrysler. And I got promoted at all three places. I’ve never had a problem getting noticed. Managers notice things. If you don’t complain, and work hard, and pick up shifts, you’ll move up. So I don’t complain. I’m twenty-eight now. I have no debt. Chrysler even has a program where they’ll pay for my college. I’ve got enough to help out my mom. I’m actually picking her up a new dryer right now.”
“I knew it would be a girl. I had a dream that I was holding a girl.”
“I like watching her get excited about things. She has a very distinct look when amazement comes over her face. Like she gets really excited about dachshunds. I always text her pictures of dachshunds. Or the tile work at the 81st street subway station. She loves that. Or warm socks. I mean… warm socks are kind of exciting to me. But she really loves warm socks.”
“I love my brother so much. One time he said he didn’t love me. But then he said that he really did. And then we hugged.”
“I met him at the company where we worked. We went out dancing. He was kind to me. Things started changing after we got married. I’d rush home from work so I could cook for the whole family. But if the food wasn’t ready on time, he’d get upset. One day his mistress came to the door to tell me about their affair. I was pregnant at the time. He came back from work and found her in the house, and he hit me so hard that he broke my face. I still have the scars. The abuse got worse and worse. I stayed for a long time. At first I thought marriages were supposed to be like that. And by the time I learned otherwise, he wouldn’t let me go. He’d lock me in the house. He’d threaten me by putting a gun to our son’s head. When I finally got a restraining order, I was in such bad shape that I checked into a mental institution. Now I’m alone and it’s the happiest time of my life. I’m able to work. I can eat whatever I want. I can go out whenever I want. Even sitting here and smoking a cigarette is a joy for me.”
“I met him five years ago. He answered an advertisement that I posted for cleaning services. His place was a mess. He was living like a hermit. He was a hypochondriac. His wife passed away in 2007, so he was just sitting around on the computer and waiting to die. Now we are like family. I visit him every day. We have over 5,000 pictures together. We go shopping. We go on walks. He even cooks now. He has given me a purpose. All of his accomplishments make me proud. Sometimes I feel like I’ve created a monster! He’s become a completely different person.“
“I met my wife when I was seventeen. I didn’t want to tell her about my schizophrenia. At the time, she liked another guy who had no issues and I didn’t want to ruin my chances. I hid the disease for a long time after we married. I would always find explanations for my strange behavior. I’d make up stories to explain my violent outbursts at work. But it got to be too much. By the time I admitted my disease, it was too late. She got a restraining order a year ago. I had an outburst and I hit her. She has forgiven me for the sake of our children, but they don’t live with me anymore. I’m on five strong medications now. I still have some difficulty controlling the pace of my thoughts. Some thoughts will begin before others end. It’s like my mind is divided. It can be tough to keep both feet in reality. But I don’t want any more problems. I’ve detached myself from everyone. I don’t speak at work. I spend my time alone. It’s my only way to live a normal life.” 
“I smoked dope every day for twenty years. I thought I was pretty slick. I could smoke while working. I could get high and still run my company. I could pour concrete. I could roof a building. I felt like I could do anything. But it ruined my marriage. I didn’t even realize it until years after my wife left me. But the dope ruined my marriage because it made me content. Nothing could bother me. Her feelings didn’t bother me. Her needs didn’t bother me. The dope put an emotional cover over what should have been obvious. I told myself that if I didn’t see the problem, then it didn’t qualify as a problem. All I ever did was give her advice. I never asked for it. I never once felt the inspiration to say: ‘Darling, I know there’s something wrong. What can I do differently?’”
“I teach English at a community college in Queens. I love the job, but I hate grading papers. I’d prefer to just have one continuous discussion about Shakespeare. I envy the math teachers who can just put their tests through a Scantron machine. Placing value on a student’s writing is much more nuanced and complicated. What if they have great ideas but their English language skills aren’t as developed? What if English is their second language? What if they’ve faced major challenges in life? Do I ignore those things? Or do I consider context while grading? I want to set high standards and prepare my students for what comes next. But so many of them already have a self-defeating attitude. And I don’t want to discourage them any further.”
“I think a lot of people live on the borderline of racism. I work in a machine shop with about thirty older guys. I don’t think there is one bad guy in the group. You’d like them if you met them. All of them love their families. But I’d say that I’ve heard eighty percent of them make racist comments of some sort. A lot of the older guys drop ‘n bombs.’ But if a black guy walks up, they’ll be friendly. They’ll even go out to lunch with him and share a meal. I honestly don’t think they see themselves as racist. Every one of them will deny it. They’ll point to the black guy that they’re friendly with. They won’t point to the things they say when he’s not around.”
“I thought I was going to work until I died. But they came in and told me that I was too old and that I didn’t know the computer. They thought I was obsolete. If that’s true—then how did I get so far without the computer? I’ve got that computer in my head. I can design the whole process. I can start with a blank sheet of paper and cycle the whole line: the robots, the tooling, everything. That was my life. At night when I go to sleep, I’m still building welding lines. There were only 1800 of us in this town that could do it. And each of us had our own style. People could recognize Norm Szewsky’s work. But you know what happened? They took all 1800 of our brains, and they put them in a computer. So now a guy who don’t know nothing can just press a button, and out comes a clamp. Oh well, I don’t really give a shit. I’m checking out soon.”
“I thought we were happy. We had two kids. She was a great mom. But three or four years into our marriage, she started playing that Sims game online. You can be anyone in that game. She could be the perfect wife or whatever. She was always on that computer. Then she started playing this other game where you can marry, date, and screw people. All of it is fake, but people actually develop feelings for each other. In real life these guys are probably 450 lbs. but online they look like Superman. There was actually one guy that she called ‘her Superman.’ He even started mailing Superman trinkets to the house. She wouldn’t quit. I even tried to break her cellphone with my hand. I just wanted her to live her life with us. But we weren’t enough for her.”
“I thought when I came to New York it was going to be this huge change of scenery and that I could be whoever I want to be. I thought there’d always be a plan, or an event, and that I’d never feel alone, and that I’d be very ‘fabulous’ — for lack of a better word. ‘Carrie Bradshaw-esque,’ so to speak. But in reality, I still spend a lot of time alone. I think it’s because I’m afraid of being a burden on those around me. What if I’m not fun enough? What if the parts of me that are sad and complaining outweigh the parts of me that are good? Will I be wasting other people’s time? And when I do spend time with other people, I’m afraid to demand a certain level of kindness and respect. Because maybe that will make me even more of a burden. So I don’t reach out to other people very much. I spend a lot of time alone. But then I still get mad when I look on Snapchat and see people hanging out without me. But I’m trying to change my thinking. I’m not allowed to feel left out if I’m not making an effort. I’m not the protagonist of reality. I can’t expect good relationships to happen just because I exist.”
“I want to be a doctor. All I have to do is grow up and ask the hospital if they have room for any more doctors. I’m probably going to wait until I turn twelve. The best part will be using the thing where you listen to your heart
“I want to be a stand up comic. The hardest thing is to find material that’s not just funny—but also true. Funny can just be a surprise. But good comedy articulates truth in a certain way. And I don’t think I’ve experienced enough to know what’s true for other people. I’ve had a bit of a charmed life. Nothing too traumatic has happened to me. I have a lot of creative energy but I’m not sure that I have the arsenal to back it up. Recently I was at an open mic upstate, and there was an older guy performing who used to be a heroin addict. There was just this sense that you should be paying attention to every word he says, and not just the punch line. I’m not there yet.”
“I want to be an archeologist. That’s a person who explores the desert and looks for dinosaur eggs and Egyptians. I’ve been thinking a lot about it. I’m already watching Jurassic Park and collecting dinosaur stickers. And once I found a piece of coral in the shape of a heart.”
“I want to empower women through dance. I think you can build confidence through movement. When a woman starts moving her body, and becomes comfortable with herself, and realizes that she can do the steps — it connects back to life. Because all of life is movement. Technically we’re dancing every day. And it doesn’t matter how you look. It matters how you move.”
“I want to grow up and be like my mom because I really like her. But that’s going to take such a long time. Because it took me so long to turn five. And even longer to turn six. So it must have taken her so long to grow up.”
“I wanted to be heavyweight champion. Joe Louis was my idol. Back in the forties, it was really something for a black person to have that kind of notoriety. He was the most popular black man alive. He made you feel like you could stand up for yourself. Protect yourself. I started training when I was seventeen. The first fight I had was with a Caucasian guy. It lasted less than a minute and a half. Two punches and he was down. It’s quite a feeling to knock somebody unconscious with your fists. To know you have that power. Who’s the person in the movie that everyone loves? It’s the one who wins the fight. The one who protects the woman. The one who protects himself.”
“I was born in Venezuela.  I moved here two years ago.  I want to be President of Venezuela to change things and make better the world.  Did you know that sometimes in Venezuela people shoot each other on purpose?  I will change that.  Also there will be rules against pushing people or thinking bad thoughts about people.  I will make a rule so that there will not be too much cutting or killing of trees.  And there will be a rule against killing too many animals because animals eat insects, and we can’t have too many insects.  I will also make sure that we don’t waste water or food.  Or if there is food left over, we have to be sure to put it in the trash.  I can’t be president now because I’m only eight.  But I did skip first grade.”
“I was first exposed to ballet at the age of seven when a traveling company came to my church in North Carolina. By the time I was eleven I was practicing six days a week. It became my all-consuming monastic devotion. I eventually made it to the New York City Ballet. I’ve always seen ballet as my way of serving God. I think it’s what God has called me to do. You can call it frivolous, or superficial. But you can stretch that argument to infinity. Why do we have painting? Why do we have architecture? I think it’s all a form of worship. In a secular age the theater becomes the cathedral. There can be such a lack of empathy and collaboration in this world. But in the theater we see beauty and order and harmony modeled for us
“I was never the best student. But luckily it’s a relationship driven world. I’m in sales. And it’s important to be knowledgeable, but my job is primarily to get clients to like me more than the next guy. All of our competitors sell very similar products. The differences between us are very small. So it comes down to one thing: ‘Who does the customer like more?’ And I want that to be me. But it’s a lot of work. Relationships don’t just materialize. I’m always on my phone. I answer emails immediately. I send ‘thank you’ notes for everything. And if I ever read an article that reminds me of a conversation we had, I’m sending it along.”
“I was pregnant the first time he hit me. I found another woman in his house. And when I asked who she was, he got violent. He told me: ‘You are not my mother. You have no right to ask me about this.’ Then he hit me. And there was nothing I could do. That sort of behavior is accepted in Nigeria. Nobody is going to call it ‘domestic violence.’ If you tell the police, they will tell you to listen to your husband. But things are different in America. So I left my husband six months after we arrived. I entered a domestic violence shelter. I became a single mother. And I was doing fine. I was working as a security guard and my children were not suffering. But then one day my daughter called the police and told them that I hit her. But that is my right. A mother has the right to discipline her children. They were disobeying me. But the government took my children away and now they won’t give them back. They are oppressing me with their power.”
“I was raised in a non-religious family, but certain experiences in life have caused me to connect with something that I can’t explain. Those experiences are like my paintings. The more I try to describe them, the more they lose their meaning.”
“I was raised in a very strict family. My mom was like a sergeant. I married way too young. I had no life experience. I was married for twenty-five years and my late husband never let me go anywhere by myself. When he died, I had no idea how to live on my own. For fourteen years I’ve been a widow. And I’ve barely left the house. Recently I met this man on the Internet. We kept exchanging pictures. We kept talking on the phone. But I was too scared to meet. He told me: ‘Put your head up high! You are the boss of your life!’ So today I finally agreed to meet. I tried on five different outfits this morning. After I left the house, I went back once more to change my shoes. I was trembling the whole way on the bus. My stomach felt sick. When I finally saw him, it felt like there was a samba school in my heart. I was sweating. The first thing he did was get me some water. Now we’ve spent the whole day together. I feel so relaxed. I feel free. I feel like we’ve known each other for our entire lives.” 
“I was the best student in my high school. I put so much pressure on myself. I never failed a class. But I got sick during 10th grade and I started to fall behind. That’s when the panic attacks began. One day the teacher handed me my grade report, and I couldn’t breathe. My heart was beating very fast. I felt disconnected. I saw people trying to talk to me but I couldn’t hear them. Eventually I passed out and woke up in the infirmary. The attacks were almost daily after that. Last year I started college. And I can’t be the best student here no matter how hard I try. Everyone is so talented. My panic attacks got so bad that I had to cancel my first semester. But now I’m working on acknowledging my anxiety. I used to try to hide it. I would log off social media. I wouldn’t answer calls. I thought that if nobody knew, it didn’t exist. But the more I talk about my problem, the more I realize that other people experience similar things. So I’m trying to express it more. I had a great teacher who told me: ‘Instead of letting anxiety keep you from doing your art, let it be the thing that motivates your art.’” 
“I was thirteen when my mother started to change. My parents had just gotten divorced. My mother should have been sad but she kept going out to dance. Sometimes she’d stay out all night. She became very talkative and had a hard time concentrating. She’d say that she wanted to sell everything and travel the world. Then she got depressed. She stayed in her room. She gained a lot of weight. I actually preferred the depression, because at least then she’d stay at home. The manic phases got worse and worse. They are so bad now that she has to go to the clinic. Then the depression will come again and she can’t stop crying. Last October she returned to her normal self. It lasted about a week. I didn’t leave her side. We took walks every day. I always tell her that she gave us the best childhood. She was always there for us. She made crafts with us. She taught me how to cook. She would even throw birthday parties for my toys. I still think I’m very lucky. I hate seeing her like this, but she’s still the best mom in the world.”
“I was voted the first in my pack! Everybody got one vote, except for me, because another girl decided to vote for me. I need to show up early now because I’m in charge of making sure that everyone arrives!” 
“I was walking up the hill with my soccer ball one night and the police and drug dealers started to shoot at each other. I jumped over the wall and ran all the way home. I told my mom what happened, and she got so mad at me. I told her that I was just playing soccer and I didn’t do anything wrong. Then she started to cry. And I started to cry. And then we went to the church and prayed for a very long time.” 
“I water my lawn every morning and birds come to get worms out of the wet ground. If I ever miss a day, the ground will be too hard, and the birds will sit in the yard and call out because their babies are hungry. That’s how I’ve felt my whole life. Like a bird calling out for food. Thirty years ago I went on strike in this same square. We weren’t getting paychecks. There was no money for bills or food. At the time my sons were one, eight, and nine. So we decided to go camping. I’d go fishing on the lake every night and catch two trout. That was enough to feed the four of us. We did it out of necessity but it was beautiful. My sons are in their thirties now. All of them have flown away. But they remember those times with happiness.”
“I went to community college when I was twenty-one. I just had an epiphany that I wasn’t really doing anything with my life. I was staying out drinking until 4 AM every night. I was working retail. I was dating a guy who was a total douchebag. When I told him I wanted to go to college, he told me ‘Let’s be real. You’re never going to pass. Don’t waste your time.’ So at the beginning my whole motivation for going back to school was to prove people wrong. I went to all my classes. I turned in well-written papers, not bullshit ones. And it was hard, but I discovered that I liked the feeling of making good grades. So I started doing it for myself. And I never looked back. I remember taking an anthropology course that first year, and one of my assignments was to write a paper on New York City nightlife. I went to the same bar that I used to go to every night. Except I wasn’t drinking. I was just watching and taking notes. And I saw this girl my age playing beer pong, and she didn’t have a care in the world, and she was stumbling around, and she didn’t realize why the guys were being so nice to her, and she was probably spending money that she didn’t have. And I remember feeling so glad that I wasn’t that girl anymore.”
“I work at a machine tool automation company. We build the machines that build the cars. High school wasn’t for me. I didn’t respond well to being lectured and having things jammed into my brain. So I started out sweeping floors at the factory, then I got moved into the saw shop, and now I do electrical installation. I’m up to $17 an hour now. And I’ve started studying PLC so I can move up even further. There’s actually a lot of opportunity in my field. There’s not much competition. Nobody my age wants to do this stuff. They all want to go to art school or make video games or something. I think maybe it’s because too many people are being told to do whatever they want. Because no matter what you think you can be, there’s still gotta be people like me.”
“I wrote her the message while I was lying in my bed. It said: ‘I don’t want to go too fast, but will you be my girlfriend?’ After I hit ‘send,’ I was so nervous that I laid the phone down next to me. I couldn’t even look at the screen. My nose was sweating. After two minutes, I saw it vibrate. I picked it up, and it said: ‘Yes!’ I felt so good. It felt like killing five characters at one time in League of Legends. These last five days have been magic. I feel so happy and nervous at the same time. This is my first girlfriend so I don’t even know what to do. I don’t know what to talk about. I don’t even know how to sit.”
“If I did something wrong, it was out of ignorance. Maybe I was too strict with him. I was in the army for twenty-seven years so that’s all I knew. He’s really pulled away lately. He doesn’t go to church. He doesn’t care about school. He thinks he knows everything and that we don’t understand anything about his life. So he always locks himself in his room. Recently he told me that he hated me. And I lost my temper and told him that he was no longer my son. Both of us apologized but things are still difficult. I think he’s just very uncomfortable with life. Maybe he feels like the black sheep of the family. My wife and I are professors and both his sisters are doing well. I just don’t know what to do. I’m trying to pull back now and be more lenient. I punish him less. I stopped taking away his phone when he doesn’t do his schoolwork. I don’t want him to rebel any more, but when I back off, it’s hard to be strict again and provide structure. So I just don’t know. I’m reading books to figure out how to reach him. I want him to understand that it doesn’t matter to me if he’s successful in a professional way. I just want him to have some sort of purpose.” 
“If I think back, I get depressed. If I think ahead, I get afraid.”
“If there was anyone who cared about me, God already killed them. My mother died when I was eleven. She had heart problems because of all the drugs. These two tears are for her. I can’t even remember her face. I remember going to her funeral but I don’t remember her face. When I dream about her, all I hear is her voice. There’s no dialogue or anything. It’s just her voice, saying: ‘Come here, Jeff. Come here, Jeff.’ After she died, all that mattered was surviving. Nobody showed me love. Maybe things would have been different if I had parents. Maybe I’d have a place to live. Maybe I’d have accomplished something. So I don’t feel guilty for anything. Why should I? God doesn’t feel guilty for killing my mom.” 
“In New York you have to focus so much on sustaining your lifestyle. There’s not much time left for other people. In the city things are expensive and your job is constantly being devalued. Fifteen years ago I could support myself as a freelance translator. Now that job is being outsourced or done online. So you have to always reinvent yourself. You have to focus so much energy on yourself. And it can be exhausting. Back in the Dominican Republic, there’s much more of an emphasis on community. People have time for each other. There isn’t as much wealth and people aren’t as focused on the acquisition of things. When I go back, people stop me on the street to say ‘hello.’ They ask about my family. We get together to have dinner. And I don’t mean ‘go out’ for dinner. I mean ‘get together.’ I bring the plantains. They bring the avocado. There’s a closeness. People focus on each other. But that can be asphyxiating. Because that means people are watching over your values and deeds. There’s a lot of judgment. There’s an expectation that you’ll live like your parents and peers. So yes, there can be lot of self-centeredness in New York. There’s not enough time to focus on the lives of others. But that’s why the world comes here to learn tolerance.”
“In twenty minutes I lost what I had been building for forty years. It happened while I was at work. My mother tried to turn on the stove and it caught fire. I lost everything. All my possessions and photographs were destroyed. Everything seemed hopeless. I didn’t sleep for many nights after it happened. But so many people came to help me. My friends let me live with them for months. My neighbors helped me clean the site and we began to rebuild. People were giving me extra materials. Twenty-five volunteers showed up from the local construction union. The experience changed me. I see people differently now. I thought that the world was full of people asking for things that they didn’t need. So I just focused on taking care of myself. As soon as my house is finished, I’m doing whatever I can to help people.” 
“It got to the point where I was stealing from stores, breaking into car windows. Everything but prostitution. I was living in the streets. Sometimes I wouldn’t shower for weeks at a time. Then one day I was walking down 149th by Lincoln Hospital, and I bumped into a drug counselor named Mr. Crespo. He took me to get some food. He gave me a few dollars. And he told me that I didn’t have to live like this anymore. I went to the methadone clinic the next day. And now I’m hooked on that instead of heroin. It’s a mixed blessing. At least it’s coming from a doctor and not a pusher. I always know where my next fix is coming from. I can work now. I can pay bills. I can be reliable and productive. It doesn’t get you high like heroin, but it takes away the urges. But it’s like liquid handcuffs because the withdrawals are just as bad. If I stop for twenty-four hours, it feels like fire in my bones. And they only give you one dose a time. So I get to the clinic every morning at 6 AM, and there are already one hundred people in line.”
“It was boring in the house, so I kept asking my parents for a younger brother. Then one day, I didn’t want to take a nap, and my mom told me: ‘If you take a nap, you can have a brother in four months!’” 
“It’s a bittersweet time. I’m trying to be happy because it’s said that the baby will absorb sad moments. But my father died five months ago, today. We don’t know exactly what happened. He was alone. We think someone tried to rob him because he was found shot to death in his car. I think it was hardest for me because we were so close. He used to visit me at the hospital every day while I was working. I learned that I was pregnant shortly after he died. I think my pregnancy is what’s keeping our family alive. Especially my mother. She’s always with me now. She gets me everything I need. The baby keeps both of us looking forward. It’s going to be a girl.”
“It’s been over a year since my divorce. I’d been married for fifteen years. I was pretty beaten down. Some days I would feel so lonely that I couldn’t even sleep. A friend of mine from work told me to download a dating app. I tried for a long time but nobody was answering me. It was making me feel worse. I wanted to delete it but my friend convinced me to keep trying. Then on January 28th, I saw her picture and gave her a ‘heart.’ And she sent me a message. I said: ‘Wow, this is really happening.’ It’s like she’s an angel who came from heaven to bring light to my life. I love my chocolate bonbon.” 
“I’d been harboring a crush on him since 5th grade. But I thought: ‘I’m gonna be in the friend zone for a long time.’ Because I’m normally not the kind of person who’s liked in that way. But I thought, ‘Go for it.’ So I started flirting. I’d say things like, ‘You look nice.’ Or ‘I like your hair.’ Then we started going to different high schools, so we started texting a lot. And every once in awhile I’d use a heart emoji. Or a kiss emoji. And if he ever had to dress in a suit, he’d send me a picture. So things were going well. Then one day I had an orthodontist appointment near his school and we decided to meet at Starbucks. After his mom dropped him off, we went on a walk by the stream. Then we sat on a bench. And I saw him flip a coin. So I thought he was bored. But right after, he gave me a kiss.”
“I’m a single father. I’ve had my son since he was two. His mother and I used to consume a lot of drugs, but I did a full stop when he was born. He saved my life in a lot of ways. But his mother never got her life together. She’ll show up sporadically but then disappear for months at a time. I try to fill in the holes with as much love as possible, but I know it bothers him. He’s just not at an age where he can fully express his feelings. I try to protect him from all the volatility of my own life. I broke up with my girlfriend yesterday. And I’m sitting here wondering how I’m going to explain it to him. I actually waited a long time before introducing them because I didn’t want her to be another absence in his life. But now it didn’t work out. And I’ve got to figure out how to break that down for him.”
“I’m a woman and I’m Andrea and I’m living my dream.”
“I’m artistically brokenhearted. I wanted to be a screen actor. I wanted to change the world through my sensitivity. But it was a very closed system in Italy. There are only like five movies per year. And there aren’t exactly auditions. You must be friends with the director to get a role. So I tried going to Britain. And that almost destroyed me. I was always cast as a foreigner. Usually I was a Mafioso, but I played all types of foreigners. I’ve been a Spanish waiter, a Turkish waiter, and a French waiter. And they were always making me wear a mustache. So I tried for America. I applied for an ‘extraordinary talent visa.’ It cost me $6,000. The application was the size of a book. I had to submit ten letters of recommendation to prove that I was extraordinary. What a scam that was. Nobody cares that I’m extraordinary. None of the television stations will audition people with this visa. Everyone wants to see a green card. I can only work on small productions. But things have gotten a little better. I’m getting some minor roles. I’m still playing gangsters. But sometimes I’m the funny gangster. Or the gangster with some sense. My next role is a scientist who turns into a zombie. In the movie, every stranger appears to be a zombie. But nobody is really a zombie. Strangers just seem like zombies. So, hey, there’s a moral message there.”
“I’m going to tell you a family secret. We hated each other in college. We were in the same history class. We argued over everything. I’d make a point in class, and she would argue the exact opposite. At the end of the year, our professor forced us to work together on our thesis project. Both of us asked him if we could choose different partners, but he refused. We made that professor the godfather of our children.”
“I’m his only daughter. And this is his only grandson.”
“I’m looking for a tall man. 85 to 90 years old. Preferably a professional. Needs to have a good mood. But other than that I’m pretty open. If you know anybody, let me know.”
“I’m not going to teach him to sell candies. He’s just out here until it’s time for school. My mom brought me out here as a child. I had nine brothers and sisters. All of us had to sell candies on the street. I started when I was five years old. I never got an education. I’m not able to read very well. This is really all I know. Some people put me down. One lady got mad at me recently and told me that she’d never buy anything from me, and that a supermarket near her house was hiring. I got really depressed. It was hard to put my head up after that. But there are also people out here who support me. I have some friends who walk by and talk to me every day. My friends from the bank told me, ‘Don’t worry about that lady. She doesn’t know you. You’re a great person.’”
“I’m not sure if people have become less interesting, or if I’m just less interested in people.”
“I’m on a tour to study music with African roots. It’s not for school or anything. It’s just a personal project. I want to travel alone for an entire year with just clothes and my drumsticks. I’ve saved $6000 and I plan to work along the way. My first stop was New York. I’ve been here two weeks and I went to ten concerts. I’ve already spent $300 so I need to be more careful. I’m about to catch a bus for Detroit. I found a place where I can live in exchange for a few hours of daily work. Then I’m going to Chicago, St. Louis, Memphis, and New Orleans. Then Cuba. Then Brazil. Then Peru. And after that I’ll go home to France. I want to learn as much about music as possible. But that’s only half the reason for the trip. I also want to learn if I can do it. I am a little afraid that I’ll get lonely, but that’s something I want to figure out. I want to know if I can be alone.”
“I’m scared to go back to work. I just called out someone in front of a large group of people. I just wouldn’t let it go. I should have taken it offline, but I had to be right. I could have stepped back, watched the movie version of myself, and seen how my behavior was being seen by the people around me. But no— I just couldn’t let it go. My therapist would be so upset with me right now. I almost went home, but there was a woman taking a diarrhea shit on the train platform. So I think God, who I don’t even believe in, is telling me that I need to go back to the office and figure this out.”
“I’m the link between him and the rest of the world. It can be an exhausting role. When things go well, I feel an increased sense of responsibility. It felt like the audience was clapping for both of us when he graduated from primary school. But I also feel an increased sense of responsibility when things go wrong. He has difficulties in crowds of people. A few years ago he got very nervous at the supermarket, and he pushed a young girl. Her father got very angry and started screaming at me. Part of me felt guilty for what happened. But part of me wished that more people understood what I go through. We haven’t been to a supermarket since that incident. The best moments for me are when he’s able to link to the world without me. Last Thursday we were visiting another girl with Downs Syndrome. And she was having a bad day. There was very little communication. So he tried to give her a box of dominos as a gift. But she refused. So he tried again. But she refused again. They went back and forth like this for a while, until the girl started to view it as a game, and she started to smile. Then he gave her a hug. A real hug with feeling. He made a connection. And it was his idea. Not mine.” 
“I’m thirty-four and I haven’t felt real love yet. Sometimes I think: ‘Maybe it’s me. Maybe I’ll never get to that point.’ I’ve had a couple of relationships. But a woman has never really made me feel jealous. And I’ve never felt that I would do anything to be with another person. I’ve read about real love in books, and seen it in movies, but I’ve never felt it. Like in the Titanic movie
“I’m what they call ‘ethnically ambiguous,’ so I get a lot of work as a background actor. I’m playing a ‘parkgoer’ today. It’s my 25th job since October. In Madam Secretary alone, I’ve played an Israeli military officer, a Colombian college student, and an advisor to the Iranian president. And that was all in the same season. They’ll keep using you as long as you don’t have any speaking lines. Maybe one day I’ll have a recurring role, but right now I’m really grateful to be doing this. My parents are immigrants from El Salvador. They are the hardest working people I know. They were really skeptical about me wanting to be an actor, so I love that they get to see me working. My first gig was a Hallmark Christmas movie with Melissa Joan Hart and Dean Cain. My parents couldn’t believe that I was on the same show as Sabrina The Teenage Witch and Superman.”
“I’ve been doing construction since I was fifteen. I like what I do and I do what I like. Every night when I’m heading home, I always look back to see what I’ve built. It gives me a great sense of joy. A few years ago I built a children’s park not far from here, and when they finally opened the gates, and all the children came running in, I started to cry.”
“I’ve been on my own since the age of twelve. My mom decided that her drug-dealing boyfriend was more important than me. One night I came home from playing and the key wouldn’t turn. I started banging on the door but nobody answered. I lived with friends for the next few years. I went from house to house, couch to couch. My friend’s mom was a bartender so she got me a job washing dishes. I saved enough money to get a car when I turned sixteen, and I drove out to Arizona. I was pregnant by the time I was twenty-one. My son changed my life. I didn’t turn into Mother Theresa overnight. I had to unlearn everything I’d ever known. I had to learn how to do things the right way, not sell drugs, not cut corners. Right now I’m trying to finish college while being a single mother. I’m taking care of my eighty-three year old grandmother. I just beat cancer for the second time in four years. But things seem to be quiet now. I’m always holding my breath, though. The story of my life has been the calm before the storm.”
“I’ve been sitting here for four hours thinking about what I should do. I don’t want to go home. I fucked up again. I’ve been a drug addict my whole life. But I was clean for three months. I got a job at a call center. I was doing well. Then as soon as I got my paycheck, I went out drinking with some coworkers. Just a normal thing. But then I tried a little coke, went on a binge, and lost my job. Same story as always. And now I don’t want to go home. I live with my mother. She’s never lost faith in me. My brother was killed in the army so I’m her only son. She doesn’t deserve this. She was so happy that I had a job. She’d convinced herself that things were finally going to be OK. And I’ve got to go home and tell her what happened. And I don’t want to do it. She’s not even going to be mad. She’ll just be so hurt. Then she’ll ask me if I’ve eaten.” 
“I’ve been working as an airline mechanic since a young age. I’m really good at it. I always pick up extra shifts. And it’s good because it’s allowed me to mature and grow. But since I work so much, it’s easy for people to think that things are going well for me. And it’s also been easy for me not to think about things. Now I’m twenty-two and I feel completely lost. I feel like I haven’t spent any time thinking about myself. I’m not good at forming relationships or talking to people. I’ve never wanted to seem weak because nobody likes people who are sad all the time. So I’ve become a closed-off person. Yesterday we picked groups for a class project, and nobody wanted to be in my group because I work so much. I don’t go to movies. I never even come to the park. This is the first time that I’ve been here. I don’t know
“I’ve detached myself from everyone who tries to tell me what to do.”
“I’ve got it all figured out. Just let time go by and try not to think about very much.”
“I’ve known since I was thirteen. It wasn’t a struggle for me. I didn’t question whether it was ‘right’ or ‘wrong.’ I just knew it was me. But I’m still completely closeted. I’m part of a very religious community. Even my choice to go to college was questioned. It’s seen as not trusting in God. If my family knew I was gay, I’d be cut off completely. Listen, they’re not bad. They aren’t bad people. It’s just what they believe. I’m not angry at them. I’m angry at the situation. If I choose to fall in love, then nobody that I’ve ever known will speak to me again.”
“Just trying to raise a girl in a sexist world.”
“Last December my wife lost her job, and now we’re struggling to get to the end of every month. Around the 20th, we always realize there’s no money left. Half of my paycheck goes to rent. And we’re still in debt from our wedding. We can’t afford to go out anymore. Our diets have changed. Now it seems like money is all we talk about: what bills to pay, what to keep, what to leave out. She thinks I spend on the wrong things. I think she spends on the wrong things. So we end up arguing. But I have faith we will pass this test. Both of us came from difficult backgrounds. She was adopted. My mother abandoned me when I was young. We both know what it means to struggle, and that’s why we chose to be together. I came to this city from a small town because I was looking for happiness. And I found my happiness in her. So we’re going to figure this out.” 
“Last year I started figure modeling for art classes. I’m plus-sized, so I was a little worried about being nude. I was nervous about everyone seeing my stomach, and my thighs, and all my fat. But apparently my curves are fun to draw. In the classroom, all the features I saw as negative were viewed as assets. One student told me that it’s no fun to draw straight lines. It’s been liberating for me. I’ve always been insecure about my belly. But now my belly has been part of so many beautiful pieces of art.”
“Mario and I had been friends since the age of six. We were from the same small town in the countryside. We always kept in touch. We’d occasionally get coffee together. I knew he was gay but we never talked about it. It just didn’t come up. He never volunteered the information and I never asked. I felt that I was being respectful. At one point, I began to notice that his face was changing. He started to get very thin. But I never asked about it. Maybe I thought that he’d feel I was invading his privacy. Mario could get offended very easily. He was like a volcano. Maybe, subconsciously, I just didn’t want to get involved. When I finally knew for sure, it was too late. I visited him at the hospital the day before he died. I could only look at him through a glass window. He was covered in blankets. I felt like such an idiot. I could have asked him at any time. I could have said: ‘What are you hiding from me? Are you sick? Are you afraid I will reject you?’ Then we could have hugged each other and cried together. We could have maybe even laughed at the situation. But we never got to do that. Because I never had the balls to ask.” 
“My brother shot himself last November. He always viewed himself as my superior. He’d never come to my door when he visited. He’d always wait in the car for me to come out. He had more money, more lovers, more everything. But he was always searching for more. He was never satisfied. My brother was a character. He was a successful character, but he was a character. And that character ended up eating him.” 
“My dad was a blackout, abusive drunk. I’ve been on my own since I was sixteen, and after that it was nothing but abusive relationships and hell. Mark was the only guy who’d ever been nice to me. We were married for five years. He’d bring flowers to my office. He would make me a bubble bath in the morning before I woke up. He even treated my daughter like she was his own. He didn’t say ‘our daughter.’ He always called her ‘my daughter.’ He’d even watch me sleep. I could never sleep because of everything that has happened to me. But I could sleep when I was with him. And he knew that, so he liked to watch me sleep. One night I woke up and he was watching me like he always did. But I leaned over to kiss him and he was cold. It’s been over a year now. For awhile I was so depressed that I couldn’t leave my room. But I’m trying to get my life back together.“
“My father and his cousin created the first drug dealing territory in this favela back in the 60’s. It was a very violent place back then. Before my father came along—anyone with a weapon had absolute power. There was no law. There was no police to turn to. There were many homicides, burglaries, and rapes. My father played an important role. It was a cruel role, but it was important. He had to clean up the favela. The criminals weren’t just going to leave. They had to be erased. And my father did that job. He was a tiny man. He dressed well. He was educated, and polite, and humble. To many people he wasn’t a good person. But he was a righteous person. I didn’t follow in my father’s footsteps. I became a photographer and an activist. But I don’t see my father as a bad man. He brought rules to this place. And today’s drug traffickers enforce those same rules. This favela is one of the safest places in the city. Stealing is not allowed here. You can’t rape. You can’t hit a woman. Yes, there is violence. Because the police are always fighting the drug traffickers. But if the drug traffickers were gone tomorrow, the favela would be a far more dangerous place.” 
“My father is a simple laborer and my mother has the brain of a twelve year old child. She has a development problem. I was never able to ask her questions when I was growing up, like: ‘How does this work?’ or ‘What does this mean?’ She was the one asking me all the questions. She never said much to me beyond ‘Hello.’ For the longest time I thought it was normal. But when I started to visit the houses of my friends, I noticed that their mothers were hugging them, and cooking them food, and talking to them. But I had no one to take care of me. I started going to nightclubs at the age of twelve. I had no supervision. I never went to college. I still live at home now. I work seventy hours a week and I don’t have a family of my own. If I left the house, it would be a disaster. Neither of my parents can read or write. I do everything for them. I feel like there are no doors open for me, but often I hear people say: ‘No matter what, you can accomplish your dreams.’ So I do feel guilty for not achieving more.”
“My father left us when I was two. The last time I saw him was my fifth grade graduation. I do know he’s alive because I found him on Facebook. Apparently he drinks a lot and goes to left wing protests. I’m not bothered by it. I think it’s funny. Sometimes I hope he comes looking for me just so I can turn him away. I did find an old journal recently from my childhood. It had The Powerpuff Girls on the cover. Inside were some pages where I had been practicing cursive, and I had written things like: ‘Why don’t you call me?’ and ‘Why don’t you like me?’ So it clearly bothered me then. Even though I don’t care now, maybe it’s impacted me in a way that I’ve yet to discover.”
“My father never learned how to talk to people. Everything had to be his way. He hit me a lot. It got really ugly sometimes. It really fucked me up, man. The whole time I thought it was my fault. Maybe it’s nobody fault. Maybe that’s all he knew. Maybe his dad did that. I don’t know. But he put me into some crazy shit. I never talked about it. I’ve spent my whole life pretending like I’m stronger than I am. But I’ve got to forgive him somehow. Because I deserve some peace.” 
“My father wants me to come home to Botswana. He tells me that he’s getting older and he needs me to come home. I miss my family, but I want to stay here. Life is different for me here. I’ve met so many people from so many cultures. I’ve done half marathons. I even did a triathlon. It’s different back in Botswana. I was completely dependent on my father. Women don’t leave home until they get married. So I’d like to stay here. But my sister is the only family that I have in America. And last week she told me that she’s moving back to Botswana. So now I’ll be on my own. And I’m worried. Because I don’t like to ask for help. But I never had a problem asking her for help. And now I won’t have that anymore. But a few months ago I joined something at my church called a ‘connect group.’ And now I have so many friends. They are like my sisters. We have brunches, and dinners, and go hiking. I feel very loved by them. So I’m hoping they will be like my family.”
“My father was a good man. He always had a job. He never drank. He never smoked. But my mother was never stable. We were evicted so many times. She spent all our money on drugs. When I was in sixth grade, she stabbed my father in the stomach with a butcher knife. I’ll never forget that sound. It sounded like a suction cup. Then another time she threw lye on his face and his skin came off. But my father stayed through it all because he didn’t want us to be alone with her. I don’t tell my psychiatrist about my mother. I don’t want him to look at me like I’m her. I hate when people do that. Some people say I’m just like her. Because I get violent. I stabbed somebody too. But I’m not like her. Because I got help. I’ve been on Lithium, Xanax, everything. I love myself right now. But I don’t like myself when I’m not on my medicine. Because everyone pushes my buttons. Everything bothers me. I get evil.”
“My father was on strike one Christmas. I think I was six years old. And whenever the union was on strike, we’d go without. So there weren’t many presents under the tree that year. Dad explained to us that he was standing up for everybody, and that he needed our help. He promised us that he’d get us more presents once he got back to work. Then the night before Christmas, somebody broke into our house. They slit the screen on one of the windows and stole everything. I woke up to my mom screaming. All our presents were gone. But that ended up being the best Christmas we ever had. Because a few hours later, six guys from the union showed up, and they were carrying bags and bags of presents.”
“My first tattoo said: “I Hate.” I tattooed over it a long time ago. I was twenty-one when I got it. It was a very self-destructive period of my life. I’d dropped out of college. My girlfriend had just left me for an older guy. I’d gotten a Mohawk and was doing a lot of slam dancing. I felt like everyone in the family was disappointed with me. My dad was a very successful attorney. My brother was a diplomat. So I rebelled against everything and decided that I was going to live the whole ‘poetry lifestyle.’ I lived in the desert for a couple years. Then I came to New York and tried to survive as a poet. I ended up working as a freak in the Coney Island Side Show. But after fifteen years, even that became like any other job. It was the exact same thing every day. Only the audience changed. I still haven’t figured out what I was trying to escape. There’s no such thing as a true outsider. We all have to breathe. We all have to eat. We all have to work. I wanted to run away from everything but I ran into myself. I’m still a middle class, intellectual kid from the suburbs.”
“My friend and I were walking home from watching live music, and two police officers approached us. We weren’t being loud. We weren’t drunk. But they told my friend they needed to search him. They told us they were looking for a 5’10” black male, which happens to be the description of most men in this neighborhood. So that’s an excuse to search every black male who walks down the street. And that’s not right. My friend was a flight attendant. He had a college degree. He was wearing a button down collared shirt. He tried to ask, ‘Why?’ But I told him to be quiet. I told him to do as he was told. Because I didn’t want to escalate. I didn’t want the guns to come out. I didn’t want him to be another hashtag. So they emptied his pockets, they patted him down, and they let him go. And I was so mad afterward. Because I’m very pro-black. I go to protests. I’m in a black sorority. But in that moment I couldn’t speak, because I was too afraid of what might happen.”
“My grandmother got me a violin when I was thirteen. Whenever people were fighting, and I wanted to get away, I’d just go in my room and play. Sometimes I’d play for four or five hours per night. It gave me a lot of confidence. I started playing in front of the church, in front of the school— it made me feel good about myself. But my mom struggled a lot. She made a lot of mistakes. She got in some bad relationships and we lived in a lot of different places. Sometimes we’d go weeks without having power. One time it got really bad and we had to start selling our stuff. She didn’t ask me to sell my violin. But we’d already sold our TV. And she just asked if I had any ideas. I ended up selling it to a friend for $145. I was really upset for a while. I’m a Christian, and God knew how much I loved the violin. So I was confused why he’d make me sell it. For a few months, I tried to keep playing in the music room at school. But eventually I had to stop so I could focus on paying the bills. I got a real job at the grocery store.”
“My husband is ninety-two and he keeps trying to make love to me. I have to swat him away. I had seventeen kids already. That’s all in the past. Whenever he gets out of the shower, he starts singing this song about a woman with long hair that he wants to kiss. He says the song is about me. I tell him: ‘Nope! Not me.’” 
“My mom and I have always been close. But we had to learn how to communicate again after my dad died. It took therapy. We’d stopped being honest with each other. My dad’s illness had been so stressful that we didn’t want to create any additional worries. So we tried to protect each other. Neither of us would admit if we were having a bad day. Or if we were feeling depressed. The answer to everything was always: ‘I’m fine.’ But we weren’t fine. And it was obvious. So we worried about each other all the time. It caused a lot of stress and arguments. We had to relearn how to admit when we were having a bad day. Because you can never truly know if someone’s ‘fine’ unless you trust them to tell you when something’s wrong.“
“My mom died of lung cancer on my sixteenth birthday. My birthday is actually coming up—this Saturday. Before she passed away, I was a good student and everything. I was probably going to get a scholarship for singing. But I stopped caring after that. My mom was my biggest fan. Even when she was really sick, she came to my singing recital in a wheelchair, with her hair falling out of her head, and she sat on the front row. I quit singing after she died. There was nobody to sing for anymore. My Dad raised us. And he was wonderful. You want to know how awesome my Dad is? He went to court and tried to legally change my birthday. Just so I wouldn’t have to go through it every year. It turns out you’re not allowed to do that. But he tried.”
“My mom has been really sick for 50 to 60 percent of my life. She had a nervous breakdown when my father left, and she ended up in a psychiatric ward. Then she had breast cancer twice while I was young. I was her only child so it was a lot of pressure. While my friends were at the playground, I’d be coming home to pick my mother up off the bathroom floor. I’m newly married now and have a child on the way. But I still have to worry about her all the time. She never remarried, so I’m all she has. She’s on oxygen now. She was so sick during my honeymoon that I had to call the hospital every three hours. Every evening when I get home from work, she has a list of things for me to do. If I don’t visit for a few days, she tells me how selfish I am. She’ll say: ‘Forget it. I’m fine without visitors. Don’t come back.’ I don’t know what I want to happen. But I’m starting a new family. And I’m at the point where I’d like some freedom to live my life.”
“My mother was cold, harsh, and demanding. But she was the best cook ever!”
“My mother was the boss of the whole family. Everyone asked for her opinion on everything. She built this business from the ground up. She made all the decisions, she set the budget, and she ordered our supplies. I just helped with simple tasks like collecting money. She passed away six years ago and left the entire business to me. I was lost. I was so nervous and shy. I’d never shown any initiative. I had no idea what to do. But I figured it out. I learned that I could be assertive and make decisions. I’ve completely remodeled the place. And the business is growing. We only had two employees when my mother passed away. Now I have twelve.” 
“My ninety-year-old mother just moved in with us. So I’ve become a full time caretaker. I’m all she’s got. My father passed away and I’m her only child. So I’m it. Right now she has a lot of negativity. She seems to fixate on the negative side of things. If I suggest going outside, she’ll say it’s too cold. If I suggest that we go shopping, she’ll say there’s too much traffic. She wants her independence, but when she has it, she gets lonely. It’s hard for me. Because I’m a positive person by nature. And it’s hard to deal with so much negative energy. My husband is worried about me. He thinks it’s too much to deal with. I have a family, a life, and a business. But I’d be even more of a wreck if I put her in assisted living. I need to know for sure that she’s getting the proper care. Because for all her negativity, my mother always taught us respect. Respect your toys. Respect your parents. Respect other people. Respect their property. Respect is the basis for everything. Without it, everything falls apart.“
“My parents are old school. We’re from Bolivia. The daughter isn’t supposed to leave the house until she’s married. But I left when I was nineteen because I couldn’t take the constant fighting about how to live my life. It’s not that I wanted to be promiscuous. I just wanted to explore New York and have black friends and white friends and gay friends. I’ve had a bad relationship with my parents ever since. I ended up marrying a Dominican boy from Corona. He’s been nothing but good to me. But they’ve never accepted him. We got married at City Hall. I’m thirty-three now. We just had our first child. So I thought things would finally get better with my parents. I thought we could relate as equals now that I have my own child. Maybe they’d finally accept my choices. But they’re still the same. My mother helps babysit my child while I’m at work. She does everything her own way. She criticizes all my decisions. When I insist on raising my child a certain way, she gets upset. She starts crying and reminds me that I left the house when I was nineteen. Then my father calls and yells at me for upsetting my mother. It breaks my heart. But I’m realizing that a good relationship with my parents will always require doing exactly what they say.”
“My parents disappeared during the last dictatorship. They were political activists. My father was taken first in 1977. My mother was taken a year later during the World Cup. We were standing in a public square, and two cars stopped, and they grabbed me and my mother. They let me go. But my mother was never heard from again. I learned all of this later because I was only three at the time. My grandparents raised me. When I was a child they would tell me that my parents were working. I used to imagine them building a skyscraper, wearing helmets, and getting closer and closer to the top. It wasn’t until the age of ten that I learned what really happened. But even then, my parents were only ideas to me. They were two-dimensional. But when I turned seventeen, I visited the town where they first met. I found their old friends and they told me stories. I learned that my father loved the Beatles. He also loved to dance. A man gave me a costume that my father would wear when he danced. And suddenly my parents weren’t ideas anymore. They were people. They were Daniel and Viviana. And for the first time, I cried for them.” 
“My sister moved in, her five cats moved in, and her ex-husband moved in. It’s driving me nuts. My sister watches those murder programs. And her ex-husband is Irish so he keeps talking about the potato famine. He loves that potato famine. Always the potato famine. And those cats. Little Louie is sweet, but the biggest cat looks like Garfield and won’t stop meowing. His name is Nitro. I’m trying to keep it together. I just picked up one of those positive thinking books.“
“One night I was talking with my wife about how perfect our life was. It was twenty-five years ago. We had four children. We’d just saved enough money to buy a new house. We felt so lucky. I remember she said: ‘What if God takes something from us?’ The next day I came home from work and found my wife screaming. She was holding our oldest son. He’d stuck his hand in the washing machine andelectrocuted himself. We couldn’t revive him. We rushed to the hospital but the doctors said there was nothing they could do. I begged them to try. My friends from the church came and we all started to pray. And the doctors were able to bring him back to life. He became a case study. Today he’s 29. He has learning problems. He can’t read or write. But he has a job as a security guard. He enjoys his life. And to this day, I believe in miracles.” 
“Our first house was destroyed by an earthquake in 1970. We barely made it out alive. We lost everything. I was only nineteen. He was twenty-two. We had two young babies and a third one on the way. When we found this place, it was just an abandoned lot. We built our house from the ground up. We lived in a tent and tried to save on everything. We carried wood and stones up the hill by ourselves. We collected free sand from far away. We barely slept. It took us a year to build. And we’ve been adding to it ever since.” 
“People who see us from the outside think that our greatest struggle is the disability. It’s not. Our greatest struggle is that we’d fallen out of love with each other. I lost a lot of my independence when Tatiana was born. I fell into a depression. He was working a lot. We grew distant. I didn’t think I could ever love him again. Two years ago I prayed one night, and said: ‘God, you’ve done so much. Please grant me one more miracle and make me love him again.’ The first change came from me. He’s always been the easygoing one, so I had to change first. I started trusting more. I tried to be more forgiving and understanding. I started to cook for him and organize things around the house. And he started spending more time at home. We started enjoying each other’s company. We talked about things other than diseases. And we started going out together
“Rio was the biggest slave port in world history. Two million slaves arrived in this city—five times more than the entire American South. Favelas were built because the government didn’t want to provide basic services to the descendants of slaves. So these descendants were forced to build their own communities. Favelas are unregulated. They’re poorly serviced. But don’t call them ‘slums.’ That’s a lazy translation and it’s unfair to the people who live here. The word ‘slum’ implies that all favelas are the same. The word ‘slum’ ignores 120 years of improvement that these residents have made to their communities. And the word ‘slum’ makes it easier to ignore these communities. That’s exactly what the government wants. Because if favelas aren’t viewed as real neighborhoods, then their residents don’t deserve real services. So please don’t use the word ‘slum.’ Because it only helps to encourage that narrative.”
“She has autonomy. She has a strong will. But she can’t move. So in many ways her life is my life. It’s bigger than me, it controls me, and it makes me fight like never before. We spend so much time together that she’s a part of me. She knows how important she is to me. She had childhood cancer. Her heart failed three times. And I was by her side the entire time. I never realized that I could love someone as much as this. She could never hurt me. She could never hurt anyone. We always ask her: ‘Are you angry?’, ‘Are you mad?’ And she always says ‘no.’ She laughs when I laugh. And right now I’m trying not to cry. Because she’ll cry if I cry.” 
“She keeps bringing home animals. I try to tell her that our house is too small for more pets. She keeps saying, ‘Our house is small but our hearts are big.’ She brings them home while I’m working. Then by the time I get home, the kids have already given them names, and there’s nothing I can do. It started with one bird. But then the bird got ‘lonely.’ So now we have four birds. And eleven hamsters. And rabbits. And fish. Now she’s started texting me pictures of dogs that don’t have a home. It’s only a matter of time.” 
“She lost her back legs when she got hit by a car. She’d already been returned to the shelter twice already. She’s a lot of work. It’s almost like having a child. You need to be very patient. You always need to change her diaper. It’s very hard to find a babysitter. But I’ve had her for 1.5 years now and I can’t imagine life without her. Everyone loves Lucy. And Lucy loves everyone. She can’t wag her tail, so I was worried that I’d never know if she was happy. But she tells me with her eyes.” 
“She was my first crush as a kid. We were in the same class together, and she sat by the window, so I’d always pretend that I was staring at the tree outside. But I never had the courage to talk to her. I was extremely shy. Then over the summer I went to her twelfth birthday party at a water park. She walked up to me with her entourage of friends, and said: ‘I liked you all year. But you never talked to me. And now I’m going to another school and you’re never going to see me again!’ I was so scared that I couldn’t talk. That moment was such a small thing for her
“She wasn’t naming things like other children her age. She wasn’t pointing at things. She would never respond when we tried to correct her. Often small things would upset her, and we’d try to comfort her, but nothing worked. All I wanted to do was tell her that I loved her and everything would be ‘ok.’ But she would push away if I tried to hug or kiss her. She was my little girl but I couldn’t even hold her. All I ever did was worry about her. We go to a therapist twice a week now, and things are getting better. Everything began to change a few months ago. She pulled me by the hand one morning to show me what she found. And sometimes she looks at me and listens. She’s the first one to wake up in the morning, and she’ll come to the side of the bed, and ask to lie next to us. And she even loves to get hugs and kisses.” 
“Success feels like an aggressive act to me. It feels like I’m kicking someone in the shins. I’m about to get my masters degree, but the rest of my family is struggling to survive. My mom is a high school dropout. My twin brother committed suicide. Nobody in my family has money. So whenever I start to succeed, it feels like I’m putting myself on a pedestal and leaving them behind. It causes anxiety. I don’t like to feel better than them. So I usually self-sabotage and knock myself back down.”
“Ten years ago I lost my job at a hotel.  Somebody bought the building and fired everybody.  I had four kids at home, and I went from $21/hour to $13/hour.  Nobody else would hire me.  Seventeen years in the hotel industry but apparently I didn’t even qualify to carry a suitcase.  I had to start parking cars at a garage.  Luckily I ended up getting this job with the city.  They started me at $12/hour but I’ve worked my way up to $30/hour.  But I don’t take things for granted anymore.  I used to dream about all the nice things I wanted.  I’m more cautious now.  I mainly think about protecting the things I need.  And I try to make myself irreplaceable.  I try to have perfect attendance.  Every time there’s extra training, I sign up.  Because the more you know, the more they need you.  All of us are replaceable, but I’m doing my best to make them need me as much as I need them.”
“The cocaine made me feel important. I thought I was always right. I was fighting a lot of people. I was cheating on my wife. I felt like I had superpowers. I was hiding my addiction from everybody. Nobody knew I was using until I had a breakdown. I stayed up doing coke for three days, and became convinced that the television was speaking to me. I tried to get through the front door of the largest television station in Brazil
“The hardest part of first grade is ‘eleven plus eleven’ because a lot of the class don’t be knowing that.“
“The older my daughters get, the more indifferent they become towards me. They don’t call me. They don’t come see me. They don’t do anything unless I try. I left the house when the oldest was six. I found a new partner. Their mother was very angry so she restricted my visits. Now they are teenagers and they seem so distant from me. I have nobody in my life right now. I have nobody to share things with, so I’d really like a relationship with them. But nothing seems to work. I pick them up from school. I speak to them every day. I try to take them to my apartment a couple times each week. But even if they are physically with me, it’s like they aren’t there. They don’t even say ‘I love you.’ It hurts. I guess they are still angry that I left. Maybe one day they will have their own relationships. And if they fail, they’ll learn that everything can’t be perfect.” 
“The one I loved most was my last son. My other children were even jealous of our attachment. When he was very young, he would hang out the window and call to me as I left for the office. And when I arrived, I would find his toys in my briefcase. We remained close as he grew older. He was the one who always called me. He was always checking on me. He was always taking me to lunch. But then one day I went to the bank, and a lot of my money was missing. He had been stealing from me. He was falsifying my signature. When I confronted him, he begged on his knees for forgiveness. Then I started getting phone calls. He owed money to people who were threatening to kill him. I went into the slums to find the loan sharks and pay off his debts. I paid them all, with interest. I used to wear nice clothes. I used to have a nice apartment. Now I’m left with nothing but my pension. And my credit is ruined. I sold all my belongings and I’m hiding from him. When I go to sleep at night, I wonder how he is doing. I wonder if he is safe. But I can’t see him. Because if I see him, I will help him again.”
“The only time my mother spoke to us was when she was drunk. And she’d tell us we were unwanted. She convinced me to drink with her when I was ten. She told me that it would make me feel better. I started smoking crack when I was twelve. I never learned to read or write. I lost my entire childhood. My friends and I would break into cars, steal whatever we could, and use the money to buy more. It made me feel good and I wanted to feel good all the time. And nobody ever tried to stop me.”
“The world doesn’t respond to me like it used to.  Throughout my life I had learned to anticipate a certain pattern of focus and friendliness.  And I never realized how much of that was based on my youth and physical appearance.  I thought it was because of my energy and personality.  But I’ve had to accept that a woman becomes less and less visible as she ages.  It begins to fade in your 40’s, and drops off in your 50’s.  You have a harder time holding people’s attention. The conversations become less about you, and more about the transaction.  It used to really bother me.  I would feel abandoned or ignored.  But I’ve grown out of it.  There’s a certain grace to letting go of the need for attention.  I was an actor for most of my life.  I was all about getting attention.  But now I’m working as a sign language interpreter, which I love.  Because it isn’t about me at all.”
“There was a lot of sickness in my house. My wife has heart problems and is connected to oxygen. I was drinking a lot. Everyone kept to themselves and stayed in their rooms. But one day I had a prophecy in the church that I would have a very big happiness. The prophecy said that someone was going to come and fill all the voids of my home. A few weeks later my daughter was pregnant. And here he is! He’s consumed my entire life. I get to watch him every afternoon. I want him to see me as the happy grandpa who never says ‘no.’ I don’t even drink anymore. He’s brought our entire family together. Recently my wife told me: ‘I can tell you are so happy. Your eyes are always sparkling now.’” 
“There were early signs. I used to have this feeling that I could manipulate the future. I got lucky at casinos, and I thought it was because I had the power to control events. I was a biology teacher back then. I was married with four kids. I read three books per week. I was only getting a few hours of sleep every night. Then one morning on the bus I had a break from reality. I was speaking to a friend, and I started to understand her in a completely different way. And the things I understood were evil. It was like my entire mental structure had changed. I began to frighten people. I lost all filters. I would say all of the strange things that I was thinking. People thought I was on drugs. I lost my job. My wife went to her mother’s place with the kids. I ended up sleeping on the streets. It took me years to realize I had schizophrenia. I was put in a psychiatric ward for two months. Now I’m taking three different medications. I’m reading books again. I’ve got some self-esteem back. I’m building a relationship with my kids. But I’m still fighting it. It’s always there. It doesn’t come and go. It’s a continuous way of looking at the world that I must keep pushing back against.” 
“There weren’t many opportunities to work in Paraguay. I was selling tools on the street. There was no money. There was nothing. I came to Argentina when I was nineteen and life has been so much better. I work every day. I’m close to opening another shop just like this. I do get called a lot of names like ‘Shitty Paraguayan.’ But I’m used to it now. In the beginning I would try to fight back, but not anymore. When I first arrived, I fought a man who tried to stab me through the cage. But he came back with twenty people and destroyed my store. So I don’t fight back anymore. Everyone in the neighborhood knows me now, so I’m treated with more respect. And my son was born in this country. So this one is an Argentinian. He’s going to study.”
“This is the farthest that I’ve ever ridden!”
“This is the first time I’ve ever been in love. My mother put me in an orphanage when I was one year old. I went from bonding with her every day to lying in a room with a hundred other cribs. It’s been seventy-three years since then, and I’m finally allowing myself to be dependent on the love of another person.”
“This isn’t the first time I’ve owned a flower shop. I owned another store twenty years ago, but it went bankrupt. I was devastated. I’d just gotten divorced. I felt like a complete failure. For months I couldn’t even drive down the street where the shop had been. But one day a friend told me that I’d been looking at it all wrong. He told me: ‘You’re focused too much on the closing. Think of all the years that the shop was open. Think of all the jobs you provided, the flowers that you sold, and all the people that you served. You were open for twenty years. It was happening. And just because it didn’t happen forever, doesn’t mean it wasn’t valuable.’”
“This racial stuff to me is BS and I’m tired of hearing it. I have it made because I’m a white male? I’m prejudiced? That shit is long ago. Way long ago. Enough of it. It’s all the media. It’s all for ratings. It’s this false racial shit that they keep pumping into everybody’s head. They’re keeping everyone on edge. If there’s a police shooting—it’s white versus black. Always white versus black. Who cares about the facts? Race is more important. Watching the news, you’d think there was a race war out there. But then I walk outside and I just don’t see it. I hold the door for the black guy. He holds the door for me. I wouldn’t even know there was a problem if it wasn’t for the television. They need to quit making shit out of nothing.”
“This was supposed to be a regular “hi mom” visit. It was my first time coming home in five years. I was expecting my mother to pick me up from the airport, but my sister-in-law was there when I landed. She told me that my mother was in the hospital. She was bleeding internally and had a blood clot in her leg. Right after we arrived, two surgeons sat me down, and told me they needed a decision immediately. They’d given my mother eleven units of blood and they wanted to amputate her leg and give her a colonoscopy bag. At first I asked if we could do nothing. But then I told them to go ahead and do it. And I think I made the wrong decision. She’s recovering now, and it’s becoming apparent that she’ll never be able to do basic things by herself. And I know my mother. She’s a very independent woman. She rakes her own leaves and blows the snow off her own driveway. She wouldn’t want to live like this. She’d never say this to me, but I think she feels that I let her down.”
“We didn’t expect to be raising our granddaughter. We used to talk about moving to the country when we retired. Now we talk about moving to the best school districts. I’m working as much as I can. I worry every day that something will happen to us before she’s grown. I’m going to the gym more. I’m trying to stay healthy. I’m enrolled in a special savings program for her college education. I’ve been adding money to it since the day she was born. Because if something happens to me, the amount doubles.”
“We go to the same school. I asked her out three months ago. I took her to a movie because it seemed casual, and I didn’t think she’d be expecting anything. When we left the theater, I handed her a poem that told the story of our friendship, including our trip to the movie. But the last line of the poem just said: ‘Look at me.’ When she looked up, I recited four more lines: ‘In addition to this, we are such good friends.Will you take one more step,and be my girlfriend?’”
“We met at a swing dance class. For the next two months, we spent a lot of time together: we went out for drinks, went to music festivals, went for walks around town. But nothing was happening. Not even a kiss. It was driving me crazy. I was always on the phone with my friends, trying to figure this guy out. I thought I was being pretty obvious. Then one night I pulled out all the stops. I cooked him a five course meal, we drank a lot of wine, and we ended up on the couch together. But still nothing!” 
“We met later in life. We’re trying to have a kid but I’m not that young anymore. We’ve been trying for years now. Our families are beginning to really pressure us. I’m sure it’s my problem, not his. I’m starting to accept the idea. I’ve been thinking a lot about adoption lately. If I can have a small human being under my protection—that’s enough. I truly believe that a mother is the person who raises a child. So I don’t mind saying, ‘I can’t have children.’ At least then people stop asking about it.”
“We met on the Internet four months ago. Both of us are divorced. It’s been forty years since I felt this way. I’m so happy, but I’m nervous too. It’s hard for me to get rid of this feeling that it won’t work out well. But I chose him because he wrote on his profile: ‘I’m an honest man. And I will do what I say.’ I’ve been disappointed a lot. Every past relationship has left a scar. Hopefully this time there will be no scar.”
“We’re doing great now. But this time last year we found a tumor on her spine and lungs. She seemed like a perfectly healthy child
“We’re taking a walk in the park to talk things through. We broke up a couple days ago. I feel like she’s too possessive sometimes. We were at a party, she felt jealous, we started arguing, and I decided that I needed some time to breathe. But I only lasted a couple days. I started to think about a lot of things. And I balanced all the good and the bad. We have our issues. But she takes care of our home. She takes care of my health. When I was in the hospital, she sat on the floor all night by my bed. And she keeps me from falling into my old habits. When I’m with her, it’s all about family.” 
“We’ve been together for twenty years. I’ve never dated anyone else. But there’s no intimacy. There’s no ring on the finger. He doesn’t even want his family to know we’re together. Maybe it’s my weight. Maybe it’s a status thing. But he keeps me away from his family. I accidentally sat by his sister at a basketball game, and his jaw nearly dropped to the floor. We’ve only made love once. That was twelve years ago. He won’t kiss me or touch me. I’ve just stopped asking. But he insists that we’re in a relationship. He got mad when I tried to change my relationship status to ‘single.’ He got on my computer and changed it back. I didn’t even know that he knew my password. I told myself that I was OK with it. I told myself that I’m OK with not being touched. But I don’t think I am. I recently went to a therapist for the first time. I was so scared he’d find out that I parked my car next door. But maybe it would be good if he found out. Maybe he’d leave me and give me a chance.”
“We’ve gone forty years without insulting each other. There have been fights, but never insults.”
“When I started being a father, I wasn’t ready. Things are great now but I struggled with substance abuse for a long time. I have three older children and I wasn’t very present with them. I’m fifty-one now and this is my last chance. So I’m trying to do my best with this one. He’s my little baby. Thankfully I’m good friends with his mother so I’m able to see him every day. But I’ve never lived with him. I don’t wake him up in the morning or help him get ready for school. I hear my other friends talking about these things and I just hate it. It makes me feel so guilty. But I’m doing my best. It’s not the best. But it’s my best.” 
“When I tried to hug her, she’d tell me it was too hot for hugs. So I learned to stop trying. We never had conversations. I thought it was normal. It was all I knew. I always thought the relationship between a mother and a child was about giving and receiving orders. But when I was ten years old, I went to a friend’s house to do a school project. At first I remember feeling sorry for him. His family was so poor. There was almost nothing in the house. But when we walked inside, his mom gave him such a big hug. And she was so happy to see him. And that was the saddest moment of my life. Because I never knew that was something you could have. My mom still doesn’t hug me. But I think we’re on the way to that. I had an asthma attack recently, and I felt so weak, and she told me I could lay my head in her lap. I can’t explain how special that made me feel.” 
“When I try to jump, I don’t leave the ground. It’s killing my Zumba.”
“When I was seventeen I had my first kid. The mother was addicted to drugs. I was in a tough situation. I was raising the child on my own. And I received an invitation to help rob a truck. I thought: ‘I’ll just do this today, and then it will be over.’ I was the lookout. The police caught us while we were running away. Prison is a place that’s impossible to explain. I was there for 2.5 years before I even had a trial. I saw a guy being stabbed. I saw a guy slit his own throat with a razor. During the night I used to sit by the window, and look at the stars, and think: ‘Not even an animal likes to stay in a cage.’ All my friends forgot about me. Only my mother visited. I’ll never go back there. Right now I’m in a tough situation again. I have no job. But people at the church help me with food. And I sit here and help people park their cars. It’s only a few pennies, but I’d rather do this than steal from someone else who needs the money.” 
“When I was younger, I’d always leave the house dressed like a man, but then I’d change my clothes. My mother told me the devil was in me. My father said that I was useless. They even took me to the doctor to find out what was going on. But my grandfather always supported me. He was more open-minded than my parents. I think it’s because he worked at a 24 hour restaurant and met all the people who came out at night. Even when I was a child, he’d see the clothes I wore, and he’d tell me: ‘If you were a girl, you’d be very beautiful.’ When I finally told him everything I was feeling, he said: ‘You’re a great person, and I’ll never be afraid of what’s going on with you.’”
“When my business started doing well, I made the mistake of hiring my friends. Now I have no business and no friends.”
“When the last kid left for college, it came to a point where it was just pretense. And I couldn’t hide it anymore. I was tired of worrying if people suspected, or if they’d find out, or if they’d still care about me if they knew. The first person I came out to was my wife. It was wrenching. It was the end of our marriage. I just kept telling her I was sorry. I think she felt abandoned. And I’m sorry for that. I also think she felt that our life together was a lie. But I don’t see it that way. We were a family. We had four wonderful children that we raised to adulthood. And those are facts. I’m not happy about the hurt I caused. But I feel authentic now. I regret the things I did, but I’m so happy about what I’ve done.”
“You can feel in the streets that everyone is worried. We come from a very small town. The engine of our entire economy is a candy factory, and people are getting laid off. I don’t like my job. I package the candies and I have to stay indoors all day. When I was younger, I would think about quitting. My bags were always packed. But everything changes when you feel a small hand gripping your finger. Now I’m terrified of losing my job. Every morning we have a routine. Whenever I don’t feel like going to work, he says ‘come here,’ and he gives me a hug, and that changes me. He’s my battery charger.” 
“You found the right guy. I carried the Olympic torch through this town. I had never even heard of a ‘torch’ before. I mean, I’m not stupid, I figured it out. But I was nervous when I saw it. I had to carry it up the hill. I’m eighty-eight. I thought I might fall down. And there were all these soldiers lined up with guns. Big guns. I thought one of them might shoot me by accident. Everyone was screaming while I ran. Nobody had ever seen anything like it. I was really scared, but I made it. And everybody started hugging me.” 
“Your appearance is the first thing you say to somebody.”